[DOCS-150] Pentest Scoping (#165)
cobalthq/cobalt-product-public-docs: content/en/Getting started/planning.md

### External Network

To scope a pentest for an External Network asset, specify the number of public IP addresses to be tested.

### Internal Network

To scope a pentest for an Internal Network asset, specify the number of internal IP addresses to be tested.

If you’re working with servers on the cloud, you can also set up a [Cloud Configuration](#cloud-configuration) asset.

### Cloud Configuration

Cobalt pentesters can test services on the following platforms:

- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure Cloud (Azure)

Each platform includes different categories of services, such as EC2, databases, and machine learning engines.

To scope a pentest for a Cloud Configuration asset, specify the number of the following characteristics of that asset:

- User Accounts / Projects / Subscriptions
- Unique Services

### Assets of Multiple Types

Sometimes, assets fit into more than one category. To that end, Cobalt supports pentests on assets in the following groups of categories:

- Web + API

> - Web + Internal Network

Reviewer: Web + External Network

- Web + Mobile

To scope a pentest for a combined asset, specify the number of characteristics for each asset type that it includes.

## View Required Credits

> Once you’ve identified the [pentest scope](#scope-the-pentest), you can see the number of required [credits](https://www.cobalt.io/pentest-pricing#cobaltcredits) in **Credit(s) Per Pentest**. Whenever you adjust the scope, the number of credits updates. Under **Credits**, you can also view your **Available Balance**.

Reviewer: We do not want to refer to https://www.cobalt.io/pentest-pricing#cobaltcredits in product docs. Marketing controls this calculator and it is for reference purpose only.

Note the following:

<ul>

> <li>We accept pentests of at least five (5) credits.</li>

Reviewer: Compliance pentests start from 5 credits and go up to 20 credits. Compliance pentests requiring more than 20 credits are reviewed and then credits are confirmed.

<li>{{% min-credits-report %}}.</li>
<li>Pentests requiring more than 20 credits don’t get immediate confirmation. We’ll specify the number of required credits after reviewing the pentest.</li>
<li>We may adjust the number of credits after reviewing your pentest.</li>
</ul>

## Additional Requests

> You can also specify special requirements for pentesters. For example, if

Reviewer: You may specific special requirements for pentesters.
Request is not guaranteed and may delay scheduling the pentest.

### Cloud Configuration

Cobalt pentesters can test services on the following platforms:

- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure Cloud (Azure)

Each platform includes different categories of services, such as EC2, databases, and machine learning engines.

To scope a pentest for a Cloud Configuration asset, specify the number of the following characteristics of that asset:

- User Accounts / Projects / Subscriptions
- Unique Services

### Assets of Multiple Types

Sometimes, assets fit into more than one category. To that end, Cobalt supports pentests on assets in the following groups of categories:

- Web + API
- Web + External Network
- Web + Mobile

To scope a pentest for a combined asset, specify the number of characteristics for each asset type that it includes.

## View Required Credits

Once you’ve identified the [pentest scope](#scope-the-pentest), you can see the number of required credits in **Credit(s) Per Pentest**. Whenever you adjust the scope, the number of credits updates. Under **Credits**, you can also view your **Available Balance**.

> Note the following:
> <!-- Update for Agile Pentests -->
> - <!-- <a href="/getting-started/glossary/#comprehensive-pentest">Comprehensive Pentests</a> start from 5 credits and go up to 20 credits.-->You can set up a pentest of at least 5 credits.
> - Pentests requiring more than 20 credits don’t get immediate confirmation. We’ll specify the number of required credits after reviewing the pentest.</li>
> - We may adjust the number of credits after reviewing your pentest.</li>

Reviewer 2: Maybe set up in a separate section:

```suggestion
### Credit Criteria
<!-- Update for Agile Pentests -->
- <!-- <a href="/getting-started/glossary/#comprehensive-pentest">Comprehensive Pentests</a> start from 5 credits and go up to 20 credits.-->You can set up a pentest of at least 5 credits.
- Pentests requiring more than 20 credits don’t get immediate confirmation. We’ll specify the number of required credits after reviewing the pentest.
- We may adjust the number of credits after reviewing your pentest.
```

{{% /alert %}}

### Mobile

To scope a pentest for a Mobile asset, specify the number of the following characteristics of that asset:

- [User Roles](../glossary/#user-role)
- [Screens](../glossary/#mobile-screen) (for all OS)

Include those User Roles and Screens that should be in scope for this pentest. Be thorough. If you forget certain roles or screens, your pentest might not cover all critical details.

### API

We can test both RESTful and GraphQL APIs. However, these APIs work in different ways. While some RESTful APIs can have dozens of endpoints, a GraphQL API has a single endpoint.

If you’re sizing a GraphQL API, identify a list of [queries and mutations](https://graphql.org/learn/queries). For pentest purposes, that’s functionally equivalent to the number of RESTful API endpoints.

To scope a pentest for an API asset, specify the number of the following characteristics of that asset:

- [User Roles](../glossary/#user-role)
- [Endpoints](../glossary/#api-endpoint) / [GraphQL Mutations](../glossary/#graphql-mutation)

> Include those User Roles and Endpoints / GraphQL Mutations that should be in scope for this pentest. If you forget some, you may sacrifice quality in penetration testing.

Reviewer 2: I'm realizing that I should have specified a `RESTful API Endpoint` in the Glossary. For our purposes, it's the same category as a `GraphQL Mutation`. 

Short explanation (IIRC): RESTful APIs set up data on different endpoints. GraphQL uses a single endpoint, but uses mutations to manage different categories of data.

### External Network

To scope a pentest for an External Network asset, specify the number of public IP addresses to be tested.

### Internal Network

To scope a pentest for an Internal Network asset, specify the number of internal IP addresses to be tested.

> If you’re working with servers on the cloud, you can also set up a [Cloud Configuration](#cloud-configuration) asset.

Reviewer 2: Would this apply to both Internal and External networks?

Author: @mjang-cobalt I don't know.

Let's ask @yogipetkar.

> If you’re working with servers on the cloud, you can also set up a [Cloud Configuration](#cloud-configuration) asset.

Yogi, do you know if this is also valid for Eternal Networks?

### Cloud Configuration

Cobalt pentesters can test services on the following platforms:

- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- Microsoft Azure Cloud (Azure)

Each platform includes different categories of services, such as EC2, databases, and machine learning engines.

To scope a pentest for a Cloud Configuration asset, specify the number of the following characteristics of that asset:

- User Accounts / Projects / Subscriptions
- Unique Services

### Assets of Multiple Types

Sometimes, assets fit into more than one category. To that end, Cobalt supports pentests on assets in the following groups of categories:

- Web + API
- Web + External Network
- Web + Mobile

To scope a pentest for a combined asset, specify the number of characteristics for each asset type that it includes.

## View Required Credits

> Once you’ve identified the [pentest scope](#scope-the-pentest), you can see the number of required credits in **Credit(s) Per Pentest**. Whenever you adjust the scope, the number of credits updates. Under **Credits**, you can also view your **Available Balance**.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this sounds better, but in the spirit of active voice:

```suggestion
Once you’ve identified the [pentest scope](#scope-the-pentest), you can see the number of required credits in **Credit(s) Per Pentest**. Whenever you adjust the scope, our algorithm updates the number of credits. Under **Credits**, you can also view your **Available Balance**.
```

Author: @mjang-cobalt "Number updates" sounds like active voice to me, contrast with "number is updated." Am I getting it wrong?
